---
title: About Me
---

#### AVINASH SAXENA 
avinsaxe@tamu.edu
9797398030

**Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas Fall 2017- current**
Master of Science in Computer Science

**Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, India Fall 09 - Fall 14**
Integrated MSc. ( **_Honors_** ) in Mathematics & Computer Science (Rank: 4 th)

**PUBLICATION**
Probabilistic choice in parallel paths _, [http://www.worldscientific.com/doi/abs/10.1142/S](http://www.worldscientific.com/doi/abs/10.1142/S)_

**SKILLS**
Java, Python, SQL, C, Ruby on Rails, MongoDB, Servlets, HAML/HTML, CSS, JQuery, Javascript

## INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE

**Software Developer Oracle India Fall 2014 - Fall 2017**
_Document Cloud Service (DCS)_

- Achieved file CRUD operation functionality by creating source and target endpoints utilizing REST APIs exposed by DCS.
- Supported pagination for large responses; Supported large file payload transfer; Enabled scheduling and event-based transfer.
_Managed File Transfer (MFT)_
- Implemented a **_new filesystem_** in **_JAVA_** ; The implementation enabled integration of a generic file system with the product.
- Automated installation of Managed File Transfer product using Python and Shell scripts. Significantly improved testing
efficiency of QA, by cutting the time for manual creation of the domains. (~90% of setup cost)
_Oracle Experience & Integration Cloud Service_
- Developed over **_30 REST APIs_** in less than 1.5 months. Exposed SFTP server parameters of free space, total space and users.
- Modeled **_data synchronization_** across the cluster using cloud database. Devised **_schedule-based_** and **_event-based_** triggers to
update the cloud database with most recent values.
_Enterprise Resource Planning_
- Developed ERP adapter for Integration Cloud Service to help map data from unknown flows to ERP comprehendible data.

## INTERNSHIP

**Software Developer, Intern Barclay’s Technology Domain May 2012 – July 2012**

- Developed a tool to parse websites, collect and compare information from the parsed data, and send relevant updates to
    customers. Supported both **_EMAIL_** and **_SMS_** based updates in JAVA using **_publisher-subscriber_** model.
**Research Assistant University of Auckland, New Zealand May 2011-July 2011**
- Analyzed and implemented algorithms in domain of voting theory; Predicted results of poll based on voter’s preferences
- Bolstered improvement in time complexity using approach analogous to Branch & Bound. **_(~50% reduction_** )


## ACADEMIC PROJECTS

- Designed **_Logistic Regression_** , **_CKY algorithm_** , **_Maximum Entropy Models_** in Python; **~84% accuracy** achieved.
- Analyzed and Implemented **_classification algorithms_** in **_Python_** to identify **_popular news_** articles & **_assess sentiment_** of reviews.
- Ideated and developed a tool to identify **_Mathematical Expressions_** from text using novel **_NLP based approaches_**. Utilized DFS,
    tree-traversal along with syntactical parsing, to generate accurate mathematical expressions within seconds from text.
- Developed a website in **_Ruby on Rails_** for a startup **_FashioNxt_**. I developed secure profile creation and sign-up using **_Facebook_**
    **_Login & Signup API_** , social features of upload and update photos, share profile, and search profile.


## NON-ACADEMIC PROJECTS

- **_Hackathon_** developed a tool to generate a UI tour for products at Oracle, using jQuery, JAVA and JS in 2 0 hours.
- **_Contributed to_** RipMe an **_Open-Source_** JAVA based desktop tool, that downloads images from specific websites.
- Developed an **_Artificial Intelligence_** based tool to perform **_negotiation_** with other players to buy and sell stocks during
    **_Hackathon at IIT Kharagpur_** , winning Silver amongst 40 participating teams with a total of 200 participants.
- **_Madrat Games,_** developed a website to host a game of probabilities where multiple players could play live. Worked as **_full-_**
    **_stack developer_** , delivering the functional website within a month along with team of 2.
**SCHOLASTIC ACHIEVEMENTS**
- Awarded fellowship for summer internship at **_International Institute of Information Technology, Bangalore_**_._
- Recipient of **_Northern Hemisphere Summer Research_** scholarship grant for research and development at University of Auckland
- Ranked within top 0.1% of 0.4 million students who wrote JEE and within 0.5% of students who wrote AIEEE examinations.


